Add Authorization in Kubernetes Hardening Guide (#43623)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/concepts/security/hardening-guide/authorization-hardening.md

---
title: Hardening Guide - Authorization 
description: >
  Information on authorization options in Kubernetes and their security properties.
content_type: concept
weight: 90
---

<!-- overview -->

Authorization in the Kubernetes ecosystem means specifying the privileges/permissions for a particular Kubernetes resource. Defining a proper authorization policy is an important step in preventing unauthorized access to clusters or privilege escalation attacks.

Kubernetes offers multiple ways to enforce permissions which are represented by various authorization modes and modules - [ Node authorization](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/node/), [ABAC](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/abac/), [Webhook](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/webhook/), [RBAC](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/). Using the RBAC mode is the most standard way of designing permissions for cluster users and the workloads. We can set the authorization mode using the `--authorization-mode` flag in the API server.

A proper authorization design helps in reducing the blast radius of any kind of attack.

<!-- body -->

> ### Role based access control(RBAC)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Role based access control (RBAC) {#hardening-rbac}
```

- Each group should be granted access only to the resources essential for its operations. Groups must not have permission to view or modify resources belonging to other groups.
- Users, user groups, and service accounts should be limited to interacting with and accessing resources within predefined namespaces. This ensures a focused and controlled access scope.
- It is crucial to refrain from using the AlwaysAllow value in the --authorization-mode flag. This value effectively disables all authorization modes, compromising the ability to enforce the principle of least privilege.
- Assigning rights using the `system:masters` group should always be avoided, as it possesses hardcoded cluster-admin rights. These rights cannot be revoked due to their hardcoded nature in the source code. Users with `system:masters` rights will always have administrative privileges. The groups who genuinely require cluster-admin rights should be provided a binding to the cluster-admin clusterrole.

> ### Resources to restrict to prevent privilege escalation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Resources to restrict to prevent privilege escalation {#hardening-components}
```

To prevent privilege escalation, specific measures should be taken to restrict access to critical resources within the Kubernetes environment:

> - *etcd*: A crucial component storing state information and cluster Secrets, requires careful access control. Roles should be defined for users with access limited to specific keys to prevent unauthorized access, safeguarding the entire cluster.

Reviewer: Make it clear that these aren't roles in the RBAC sense

> - *kubelet*: The primary node agent operating on every node, necessitates secure configuration. The kubelet service should run with --anonymous-auth=false to enhance security. The node/proxy right should be granted judiciously, ensuring only necessary users have access to the Kubelet API and preventing evasion of Kubernetes admission control.

Reviewer: - Put command line arguments inside backticks.

> - *Kubernetes Dashboard* : a web-based UI for cluster interaction, poses a security risk if accessed by attackers. Users with elevated access to the dashboard can exploit vulnerabilities, including opening shell connections to pods and viewing Secrets. In the cluster role, grant users read-only permission to the dashboard, minimizing write access to mitigate the risk of cryptojacking attacks.

Reviewer: Ideally, reword this to be good advice whether or not the cluster in question uses Kubernetes RBAC.

- *Kubernetes Secret* : An object containing sensitive information like passwords and tokens, demand controlled access. Unrestricted access to Secrets should be avoided to limit exposure to potential attackers. Admission controllers should be used to restrict access to only for necessary components.

> - *Kubernetes API* : It is an HTTP API for querying and modifying cluster objects, is critical for communication. Unrestricted access to the API poses risks, including resource modifications, data breaches, and potential cluster takeovers. Implement RBAC policies with minimal verbs, ensuring that users have only the necessary permissions to interact with the Kubernetes API securely.

Reviewer: Ideally, reword this to be good advice whether or not the cluster in question uses Kubernetes RBAC.

> ### Admission controllers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Admission control {#hardening-admission-control}
```

> You can extend the built-in RBAC policies using the validation admission webhooks to strengthen the authorization design. 

Reviewer: This is poor advice; if you want custom authz, you should use an **authorization** callout: https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/webhook/

A Kubernetes admission controller is a component of code that analyzes requests made to the Kubernetes API server and decides whether to approve them or deny them. The request gets evaluated after it has been verified and authorized by the API server before it is granted and implemented. 
This is an optional feature that may only be required for  large-scale clusters or where complex security is required. They can be adjustable for many different user-specific scenarios and environments. There are many open source and commercial implementations from which organizations can choose and enforce their specific restrictions.

> ### Auditing RBAC policies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Policy review
```

---
title: Hardening Guide - Authorization 
description: >
  Information on authorization options in Kubernetes and their security properties.
content_type: concept
weight: 90
---

<!-- overview -->

# Authorization

Authorization in Kubernetes ecosystem means specifying the privileges/permissions for a particular kubernetes resource. Defining a proper
authorization policy is an important step in preventing unauthorized access to the clusters or privilege escalation attacks. Kubernetes offers
multiple ways to enforce permissions which are represented by various authorization modes and modules - Node authorization, ABAC, Webhook,
RBAC. Using the RBAC mode is the most standard way of designing permissions for cluster users and the workloads. We can set the authorization

> mode using the `--authorization-mode` flag in kube api server. A proper Authorization design helps in reducing the blast radius of any kind of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
mode using the `--authorization-mode` flag in the API server. A proper Authorization design helps in reducing the blast radius of any kind of
```

attack.

<!-- body -->

### RBAC (Role Based Access Control)

RBAC mode is enabled by default and is one method to control access to cluster resources based on the roles of individuals within an
organization. It is the most important authorization method for both developers and admins in Kubernetes. It is used to restrict access for
user accounts and service accounts. To check if RBAC is enabled in a cluster using kubectl, execute `kubectl api-version`. The RBAC mode can be

> enabled by setting the RBAC value with --authorizationmode flag in kube api server command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
enabled by setting `--authorization-mode` flag to "RBAC" in the `kube-apiserver` command line.
```

> > `kube-apiserver --authorization-mode=RBAC`

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```
kube-apiserver --authorization-mode=RBAC
```
````

> ### Least Privilege Principal

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Least Privilege Principle
```

> - The principal of least privilege should always be followed while designing the authorization policies. This principle states that any user or

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The principle of least privilege should always be followed while designing the authorization policies. This principle states that any user or
```

  entity should have only the required privileges/rights to access any particular resource.

- Each group should only have access to the resources that they need and should not be allowed to view or alter the resources of other groups.
  Users, user groups, and service accounts should only be able to interact with and access resources within certain namespaces.

> - We should never use _AlwaysAllow_ value in the authorization-mode flags, since it basically disables all the authorization modes, limiting

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- We should never use "AlwaysAllow" value in the `--authorization-mode` flag, since it basically disables all the authorization modes, limiting
```

  the ability to enforce the least privilege for access.

> - Using the _system:masters_ group for assigning rights should always be avoided, since this group has hard-coded cluster-admin rights which

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Using the `system:masters` group when assigning rights should always be avoided, since this group has hard-coded cluster-admin rights which
```

  cannot be revoked (it’s hardcoded in the source code). Any user having this right will always be admin. A recommendation would be that if

>   people really need cluster-admin, then just provide a binding to the cluster-admin clusterrole.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  people really need cluster-admin, then just provide a binding to the `cluster-admin` clusterrole.
```

### Resources to Restrict to prevent Privilege Escalation

> - **_Etcd_** is a critical component which stores state information and cluster-secrets in key-value pairs in the database. Unauthorized access

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **_Etcd_** is a critical component which stores state information and cluster Secrets in key-value pairs in the database. Unauthorized access
```

  to Etcd can compromise the entire cluster. Roles for the users with only the required access to certain keys should be set.

- **_Kubelet_** is a primary node agent which operates on every node. The kubelet service should be run with `--anonymous-auth=false`. The
  `node/proxy` right should only be given to required users, since any user with that right can access to the Kubelet API directly by evading the
  Kubernetes admission control.

- **_Kubernetes Dashboard_** is a web-based UI to interact with applications running in the cluster. Attackers with elevated access to the

>   dashboard can open a shell connection to any pod, view secrets and can also use the existing resources for cryptojacking attacks. In the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  dashboard can open a shell connection to any pod, view Secrets and can also use the existing resources for cryptojacking attacks. In the
```

  cluster role, users should only be provided with the read-only permission to the dashboard and write access should be minimized at all costs.

- **_Kubernetes Secret_** is an object that contains sensitive information, such as a password, token, or key, which is used in the Pod

>   configuration or container image. Unrestricted access of secrets to the components, which doesn't require them expands the attack surface. We

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  configuration or container image. Unrestricted access of Secrets to the principals which don't require them expands the attack surface. We
```

>   can use admission controllers to define policies to restrict the use of secrets only to the required components.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  can use admission controllers to define policies to restrict the access of Secrets only to the required components.
```

- **_Kubernetes API_** is an HTTP API used to query and modify the status of Kubernetes objects. It also facilitates communication between

>   users, various components inside cluster and external parties. Unrestricted access to this API may lead to resource modifications, data

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  users, various components inside the cluster and the external parties. Unrestricted accesses to this API may lead to resource modifications, data
```

  breaches or even a cluster takeover. RBAC policies with minimum verbs should be assigned to any user.

### Auditing RBAC Policies

As the application grows, the scope of the components expands and the required permissions of certain resources also changes. There is a very
high chance that any admin or developer might unknowingly give extra permission to any of the defined roles any time. Regular reviews of the
existing RBAC policies are required to check and prevent any such. We can use the below tools to audit and make a check for risky permissions
in the existing RBAC policies defined in the cluster.

- [K8s-rbac-audit](https://github.com/cyberark/kubernetes-rbac-audit)
- [Krane](https://github.com/appvia/krane)
- [Kubiscan](https://github.com/cyberark/KubiScan)

### Admission Controllers

> We can extend the in built RBAC policies using the Validation Webhook of Admission Controllers to strengthen the authorization design. There

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We can extend the builtin RBAC policies using the validation admission webhooks to strengthen the authorization design. There
```

can be situations when we require more policy features or granularity which RBAC or network policies provide. Kubernetes admission controllers
can help in such a scenario.

A Kubernetes admission controller is a component of code that analyzes requests made to the Kubernetes API server and decides whether to
approve them or deny them. The request gets evaluated after it has been verified and authorized by the API server before it is granted and
implemented. This is an optional feature, which may be only be required for large scale clusters or where complex security is required. They
can be adjustable for many different user-specific scenarios and environments. There are many open source and commercial implementations from

> which organizations can choose and enforce their specific restrictions.

Reviewer 2: Move this paragraph ahead of the previous one?

Author: Yup, moved it above.

---
title: Hardening Guide - Authorization 
description: >
  Information on authorization options in Kubernetes and their security properties.
content_type: concept
weight: 90
---

<!-- overview -->

> Authorization in Kubernetes ecosystem means specifying the privileges/permissions for a particular kubernetes resource. Defining a proper

Reviewer 3: nit: grammar and 
```suggestion
Authorization in the Kubernetes ecosystem means specifying the privileges/permissions for a particular Kubernetes resource. Defining a proper
```

> authorization policy is an important step in preventing unauthorized access to the clusters or privilege escalation attacks. Kubernetes offers

Reviewer 3: If this sentence is referring to a single cluster then I suggest the following
```suggestion
authorization policy is an important step in preventing unauthorized access to the cluster or privilege escalation attacks. Kubernetes offers
```

If this sentence is referring to multiple clusters then I suggest
```suggestion 
authorization policy is an important step in preventing unauthorized access to clusters or privilege escalation attacks. Kubernetes offers
```

> multiple ways to enforce permissions which are represented by various authorization modes and modules - Node authorization, ABAC, Webhook,

Reviewer 3: non-blocking nit
```suggestion
multiple ways to enforce permissions which are represented by various authorization modes and modules - Node authorization, ABAC, webhook,
```

> multiple ways to enforce permissions which are represented by various authorization modes and modules - Node authorization, ABAC, Webhook,
> RBAC. Using the RBAC mode is the most standard way of designing permissions for cluster users and the workloads. We can set the authorization

Reviewer 3: would links be helpful?
```suggestion
multiple ways to enforce permissions which are represented by various authorization modes and modules -[ Node authorization](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/node/), [ABAC](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/abac/), [Webhook](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/webhook/),
[RBAC](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/). Using the RBAC mode is the most standard way of designing permissions for cluster users and the workloads. We can set the authorization
```

Author: Yup sounds good.

mode using the `--authorization-mode` flag in the API server. A proper Authorization design helps in reducing the blast radius of any kind of
attack.

<!-- body -->

### RBAC (Role Based Access Control)

RBAC mode is enabled by default and is one method to control access to cluster resources based on the roles of individuals within an
organization. It is the most important authorization method for both developers and admins in Kubernetes. It is used to restrict access for
user accounts and service accounts. To check if RBAC is enabled in a cluster using kubectl, execute `kubectl api-version`. The RBAC mode can be
enabled by setting `--authorization-mode` flag to "RBAC" in the `kube-apiserver` command line.

```
kube-apiserver --authorization-mode=RBAC
```

> ### Least Privilege Principle

Author: Sure, will check and update!

- The principle of least privilege should always be followed while designing the authorization policies. This principle states that any user or
  entity should have only the required privileges/rights to access any particular resource.

- Each group should only have access to the resources that they need and should not be allowed to view or alter the resources of other groups.
  Users, user groups, and service accounts should only be able to interact with and access resources within certain namespaces.

- We should never use "AlwaysAllow" value in the `--authorization-mode` flag, since it basically disables all the authorization modes, limiting
  the ability to enforce the least privilege for access.

- Using the `system:masters` group when assigning rights should always be avoided, since this group has hard-coded cluster-admin rights which
  cannot be revoked (it’s hardcoded in the source code). Any user having this right will always be admin. A recommendation would be that if
  people really need cluster-admin, then just provide a binding to the `cluster-admin` clusterrole.

> ### Resources to Restrict to prevent Privilege Escalation

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Restriction of resources for prevention of Privilege Escalation
```

> - **_Etcd_** is a critical component which stores state information and cluster Secrets in key-value pairs in the database. Unauthorized access

Reviewer 3: etcd is typically spelled lower case
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/components/#etcd

```suggestion
- **_etcd_** is a critical component which stores state information and cluster Secrets in key-value pairs in the database. Unauthorized access
```

  to Etcd can compromise the entire cluster. Roles for the users with only the required access to certain keys should be set.

> - **_Kubelet_** is a primary node agent which operates on every node. The kubelet service should be run with `--anonymous-auth=false`. The

Reviewer 3: kubelet is typically spelled lower case
https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kubelet/

```suggestion
- **_kubelet_** is a primary node agent which operates on every node. The kubelet service should be run with `--anonymous-auth=false`. The
```

  `node/proxy` right should only be given to required users, since any user with that right can access to the Kubelet API directly by evading the
  Kubernetes admission control.

- **_Kubernetes Dashboard_** is a web-based UI to interact with applications running in the cluster. Attackers with elevated access to the
  dashboard can open a shell connection to any pod, view Secrets and can also use the existing resources for cryptojacking attacks. In the
  cluster role, users should only be provided with the read-only permission to the dashboard and write access should be minimized at all costs.

- **_Kubernetes Secret_** is an object that contains sensitive information, such as a password, token, or key, which is used in the Pod

>   configuration or container image. Unrestricted access of Secrets to the principals which don't require them expands the attack surface. We

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  configuration or container image. Unrestricted access of Secrets to the principals which don't require them, expands the attack surface. We
```

  can use admission controllers to define policies to restrict the access of Secrets only to the required components.

- **_Kubernetes API_** is an HTTP API used to query and modify the status of Kubernetes objects. It also facilitates communication between
  users, various components inside the cluster and the external parties. Unrestricted accesses to this API may lead to resource modifications, data
  breaches or even a cluster takeover. RBAC policies with minimum verbs should be assigned to any user.

### Admission Controllers

> We can extend the builtin RBAC policies using the validation admission webhooks to strengthen the authorization design. There

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We can extend the built-in RBAC policies using the validation admission webhooks to strengthen the authorization design. There
```

can be situations when we require more policy features or granularity which RBAC or network policies provide. Kubernetes admission controllers
can help in such a scenario.

A Kubernetes admission controller is a component of code that analyzes requests made to the Kubernetes API server and decides whether to
approve them or deny them. The request gets evaluated after it has been verified and authorized by the API server before it is granted and

> implemented. This is an optional feature, which may be only be required for large scale clusters or where complex security is required. They

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
implemented. This is an optional feature, which maybe only required for large scale clusters or where complex security is required. They
```

> can be adjustable for many different user-specific scenarios and environments. There are many open source and commercial implementations from

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
can be adjusted for different user-specific scenarios and environments. There are many open source and commercial implementations from
```

which organizations can choose and enforce their specific restrictions.

### Auditing RBAC Policies

As the application grows, the scope of the components expands and the required permissions of certain resources also changes. There is a very
high chance that any admin or developer might unknowingly give extra permission to any of the defined roles any time. Regular reviews of the

> existing RBAC policies are required to check and prevent any such. We can use the below tools to audit and make a check for risky permissions

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
existing RBAC policies are required to check and prevent such mistakes. We can use the below tools to audit and make a check for risky permissions
```

> existing RBAC policies are required to check for and prevent such mistakes. We can use the below tools to audit and make a check for risky permissions
> in the existing RBAC policies defined in the cluster.
> 
> - [K8s-rbac-audit](https://github.com/cyberark/kubernetes-rbac-audit)
> - [Krane](https://github.com/appvia/krane)
> - [Kubiscan](https://github.com/cyberark/KubiScan)

Reviewer 3: If we suggest tools, it may seem that the project is picking "the best" audit tools.
I think we can leave the links to the tools out.
```suggestion
existing RBAC policies are required to check for and prevent such mistakes. 
```
According to the [style guide](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/style/content-guide/#third-party-content):

> Docs can link to third-party open source software (OSS) outside the Kubernetes project only if it's necessary for Kubernetes to function

or 

```suggestion
existing RBAC policies are required to check for and prevent such mistakes. There are open source tools available to audit the cluster's RBAC policies.
```
